So, the way in which you'll interact with
data science depends a little bit on
what kind of organization you are.
To some extent, it depends a lot
on the size of your organization.
So, when you're just a start up,
when you're an early stage company, or
you're just one person
with a very small team,
maybe like one other person working for
you.
You may not need to worry so much yet
about how to do experimentation,
how to do machine learning, how to do sort
of prediction and downstream calculations.
The first order of business is just making
sure your sort of data house is in order.
And the way to do that is to make
sure you focus on infrastructure.
So the first thing that you need to do
is build out the infrastructure for
storing the data,
the databases and so forth.
The software that's gonna
be run to pull those data,
the servers that are gonna serve
the data to other people, and
the servers that you'll interact with
yourself in order to get the data out.
So all that sort of requires
infrastructure building up at first.
So often the first people that you
get to hire into a data science team,
are not people that you would necessarily
called data scientists in the sense that
they're not analyzing the data,
they're not doing machine learning.
They might do a little bit of that but
mostly they're involved on just
making sure the machine is running,
making sure the data's getting collected,
its secure, its stored and so fourth.
So when your a mid size organization,
then hopefully you've got
the basic infrastructure in place.
And you can start thinking about building
out your real data science team.
And so to do that you can bring on board
people that are actually called data
scientists.
And those are the folks who will
then actually use the data.
So they might pull it out of the database.
They might run some experiments.
They might build machine
learning algorithms.
They might analyze the data to see
if you can identify any patterns or
trends in behavior that you care about.
And so at that point,
you're thinking about actually
building out the data science team.
You're also thinking about implementing
these data science ideas and products.
So again, the data scientist might
build something like a machine learning
algorithm that predicts,
say, consumer behavior.
Once you have that algorithm built out,
you might need to implement
it back on to your system.
And you might need to scale it up, so
that it can be run on the whole data set.
You might wanna build some
sort of visualization,
that people who aren't necessarily
data scientists can interact with.
And so, that would be turning it back
over to the data engineering team.
So there's still infrastructure concerns,
because you have a large set of data that
you've hopefully collected at this point.
You need to be secure about it,
you need to have a database,
you need to be able to scale it.
But, now you're sort of graduating into
a more complete view of data science.
For a large organization you have
all those same sorts of things.
You now have a data infrastructure,
you might have a data science
team that's running experiments.
You may be using those
experiments to make decisions.
But now you have one additional component
which is really managing the team and
keeping everybody on task and coordinated.
So at this point the data science manager
role becomes a little bit more involved,
in the sense that you might be
coordinating multiple teams of data
scientists working on different projects.
You might have a team that works
exclusively on building machine
learning projects.
You might have another team that works
exclusively on running experiments and
inferring what you can
from those experiments.
And then someone has to be in charge of
coordinating those activities making sure
they're connected to the right
people within your organization.
Whether that's the marketing team,
the business group or
whoever else that you're
collaborating with.
You have to be able to
connect those people.
And so at that scale the full data
science infrastructure is in place.